# Tic-Tac-Toe
 Welcome back! As shown in the in the title today's program is a Tic Tac Toe game. I'm sure you are familiar with this game as many people have played this back in school when you had nothing but a piece of paper and a pencil. This program is simply a tic tac toe game against an AI, meaning you will be playing against the computer itself. However this AI isn't that complex as you'll see it is very easy to win. I hope to release soon another program with a more complex AI!   
 Programming
   This program was created by using html, css and Javascript. The css part is quite simple. Everyone knows what a traditional Tic Tac Toe diagram looks like. A 9 boxed diagram with no borders. If you wanted you could switch it up and make it a box but that would be on you. 
   The HTML portion of the program is simple as well. This is where you create the 9 boxes needed. This is also where you create the replay button whenever the game is over.
    Now we get to the Javescript. If you see towards the beginning one of the first things we do is list out the WinCombos. This is impotant because it tells us what are the possible ways a player(AI) can win. As you can see there are nine possible ways. However if the board were to be 4X4 the combinations to win would jump to 16. However who plays 4x4 Tic TAC TOE HAHAHAHAAHAHA. Anyway our next function is the startGame. This function basically allows the player to go first choosing which to begin the game. However the next function TurnClick function. This function notes which square the player wants to place their X in. The turn function basically allows the program to switch back and forth from the player to the AI player. Onces the player goes the AI will go. This will keep going until all the boxes are filled. Once the boxes are filled the checkWin
function comes into play. Remember all those winCombos we listed out in the beginning well this function will go through all of them to see if there is a winner. If they one of the winning combo's is found it will return gameWon which states who won. However you must be wondering well how do you know who wins? Well thats where the gameOver function comes into play. If you look at gameWon.player it has two colors blue or green. If your boxes turn blue after a win that means you the player has won (Nice!). However if your boxes turn green that means the computer has won (curse those damn machines!). If no one wins it will be considered a tie and the entire box would become red (you both equally suck or are matched??). This tie is determined in the checkTie function where you see if there are any wincombos. If not then the game is tied. You will notice there are other functions such as the bestSpot and emptySquares. These functions are for the AI (yeah I know we need some functions for our opponent!) These functions allow the AI to survey the board and see which squares are empty and which is the best spot for them to place their O.
# Extra
  I know I spent a while on the Javascript part however it is important to understand what each part does. This way you can go back and make improvements. For example you can give your player a name instead of calling it a player. It sounds simple however when you are programming the simplest things look amazing. Another thing you can do (which is what I hope to do and post soon) is make the AI more efficiant. If you notice when you are playing against the AI it fills up a square really quick. Thats because the AI isn't really putting in that much effort into it's choices. It's just choosing randomly as you go along. There really is no thought process behind it. Don't believe me? Try playing against it and notice it's erratic choosing. Once u click the square a second later the AI has already chosen. With a more efficient AI the computer will actually take time in order to choose their box. Also the computer may actually give you a challenge. So mess around and see what you can do with your Tic Tac Toe program!
